Title: Try out the UV package manager
Date: 2024-12-24
Slug: try-out-uv
Authors: sbg
Summary: An extremely fast Python package and project manager, written in Rust.

# First Steps with UV

I've heard about the new package manager called [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/). It's supposed to be faster than other package managers. I was interested to see what it can do.  
Installation is easy. Just run the following command:

```bash
brew install uv
```

# Converting an existing project

I converted a project that uses an external library to get to know UV better.  
There is nothin fancy in the used project. It's just a simple project that uses the **typer** library to create a CLI.  
UV comes with a dependency manager that is similar to pip. Which makes it easy to install new dependencies.

```shell
# Initialize a new project
uv init

# Install the typer library
uv install typer
```

# Project Structure after running uv init

```
.
├── pyproject.toml
├── src
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── FileClass.py
│   ├── main.py
│   └── regexes.py
├── tests
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── test_main.py
├── .python-version
└── uv.lock
```

The created files are:

- **pyproject.toml**: The configuration file for the project
- **.python-version**: The python version that should be used
- **uv.lock**: The lock file that contains the installed dependencies

# Cool things that come with UV

If you ever worked in a team that sees python only as a glue language you know the struggle with the python version and the installed dependencies.  

- **uv tree** a command that shows the dependencies of the project
- **uv run** a command that runs the project in a dedicated virtual environment
- **uv add** a command that adds a new dependency to the project

There are many more commands that come with UV. I will try them out in the next days.

# Running the project

```shell
uv tree

Resolved 10 packages in 1ms
document-formater v0.1.0
└── typer v0.15.1
    ├── click v8.1.8
    ├── rich v13.9.4
    │   ├── markdown-it-py v3.0.0
    │   │   └── mdurl v0.1.2
    │   └── pygments v2.18.0
    ├── shellingham v1.5.4
    └── typing-extensions v4.12.2
```

It shows how many dependencies just the **typer** library has. After I saw that it became clear why you often get into dependency hell with python projects. Especially if you work in a team that has only basic python knowledge.  
That's why I started to used **dev-containers** but that's a different topic for another day.

## Conclusion

I like the idea of UV. It's a fast package manager that makes it easy to install dependencies. I will start using it in my projects and see how it goes.  
I will compare this to my dev-container setup and see if I can replace it with UV. At the moment it looks like it could be a good replacement if you don't need a database or other services.

## Lessons Learned

- learned how to install UV
- learned how to convert an existing project to UV
- learned how to install dependencies with UV
- learned how to run the project with UV
- learned how to show the dependencies of the project with UV
- learned how to add a new dependency to the project with UV
