Title: Setup MacMini M4
Date: 2024-12-19
Slug: setup-macmini-m4
Authors: sbg
Summary: Setting up MacMini M4

# Setup MacMini M4

Tranfering the data from the old MacBook to the new MacMini M4. I am using the Migration Assistant to transfer the data. The process is straight forward. I am also installing the software that I need on the new MacMini. I am also setting up the development environment. I will be using the MacMini for development work.

## Using colima

I wanted to try out colima for a long time now. Today was the day. I installed colima and tried it out. I used a lot of dev containers at my old job. So the setup neded to work with docker compose. After some websearch I found a way to use docker compose with colima.
So basically to use docker compose with colima you need to have docker and docker compose installed.
Here's what I did:

```zsh
brew install colima
brew install docker
brew install docker-compose

colima start
```

### Testing if installation worked

```
docker --version
docker-compose --version
```

After the installation was complete I tested existing dev conatiners with VSCode and run into some issues. After a long websearch I found out that the cli plugin need to be added to the docker config. I ended up adding the following to the `~/.docker/config.json` file:

```
"cliPluginsExtraDirs": [
      "/opt/homebrew/lib/docker/cli-plugins"
]
```

After adding the cli plugin path to the config file I was able to use the dev containers with VSCode.

# Lessons Learned

- learned how to use colima
- setup dev containers with colima
- learned how to use docker compose with colima
- learned how to add cli plugins to docker
